GWEN IFILL: Good evening.
I'm Gwen Ifill.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I'm Judy
Woodruff.
GWEN IFILL: On the "NewsHour"
tonight: Protests
erupt in Charlotte, North
Carolina,as the
city attempts to get to the
bottom of how
a black man was killed by
police.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Also ahead this
Wednesday,
we sit down with Libertarian
presidential
candidate Gary Johnson on what
it means to
his campaign to be left off the
first debate
stage.
GWEN IFILL: Plus, a deep dive
into Donald
Trump's overseas businesses, and
how those
entanglements could affect his
foreign policy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And a look at the
historical
gems inside the new National
Museum of African
American History and Culture
sitting in the
country's front yard.
LONNIE Bunch, Director, National
Museum of
African American History and
Culture: I hope
this museum will continue to
evolve, continue
to change, because it really has
to be a place
that is the great convener, that
can bring
anybody and everybody into a
conversation
around race.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
GWEN IFILL: It's an all-too-
familiar story,
in a new setting.
This time, the city of Charlotte
is on edge,
awaiting a second night of
protests over the
police killing of a black man.
The drama began with a Tuesday
confrontation
that sparked a night of trouble.
William Brangham begins our
coverage.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Within hours
of the fatal
shooting, protests boiled over
in North Carolina's
largest city.
The victim was 43-year-old Keith
Lamont Scott.
And his sister, who didn't give
her name,
said he was unarmed.
WOMAN: They said, hands up, he
got a gun,
he got a gun.
Pow, pow, pow, pow.
That's it.
He had no gun.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Another woman,
claiming
to be Scott's daughter, went on
Facebook,
saying he'd had a book, not a
gun, and also
had an unspecified disability.
In short order, a crowd blocked
traffic on
Interstate 85, throwing rocks,
and destroying
police cars.
Some looted a tractor-trailer
and set it on
fire.
Others broke into a nearby
Wal-Mart.
Police eventually used tear gas
to quell the
violence, but 16 officers were
injured.
This morning, police chief Kerr
Putney urged
people to step back and be calm.
KERR PUTNEY,
Charlotte-Mecklenburg, North
Carolina, Police Chief: It's
time to change
the narrative, because I can
tell you from
the facts that the story is a
little bit different
as to how it's been portrayed so
far, especially
through social media.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: As Putney told
it, officers
had been at an apartment
complex, searching
for a suspect, when they saw
Scott get out
of a car.
They say he did have a gun, and
refused to
put it down.
KERR PUTNEY: In spite of the
verbal commands,
Mr. Scott, as I said, exited his
vehicle armed
with a handgun, as the officers
continued
to yell at him to drop it.
He stepped out, posing a threat
to the officers,
and officer Brentley Vinson
subsequently fired
his weapon, striking the
subject.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The officer,
who is also
black, was placed on
administrative leave,
which is standard procedure in
such cases.
Meanwhile, local activists and
ministers called
for an economic boycott of
Charlotte.
JOHN BARNETT, Civil Rights
Attorney: Across
the country, we are being shot
down, shot
down.
Very few cops go to jail for
that.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: And by late
this afternoon,
protests were starting up again.
This incident came just a day
after graphic
video from Tulsa, Oklahoma, that
showed an
officer shooting an unarmed
black man.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
William Brangham.
GWEN IFILL: We will hear from
the mayor of
Charlotte after the news
summary.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In the day's
other news: The
Federal Reserve held fast on
keeping a key
short-term interest rate near
record lows.
Fed Chair Janet Yellen said
economic activity
has picked up, but there's no
need yet to
put on the brakes.
JANET YELLEN, Federal Reserve
Chair: We're
not seeing strong pressures on
utilization,
suggesting overheating, and my
assessment
would be, based on this
evidence, that the
economy has a little more room
to run Than
might have been previously
thought.
That's good news.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Yellen did
suggest an interest
rate increase is likely before
year's end.
GWEN IFILL: The Fed's action
sent Wall Street
higher.
The Dow Jones industrial average
gained 163
points to close at 18293.
The Nasdaq rose nearly 54
points, and the
S&P 500 added 23.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The crisis in
Syria took center
stage today at the U.N. Security
Council.
The U.S. and Russia clashed over
the failure
of the latest cease-fire, and
Monday's deadly
attack on an aid convoy.
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei
Lavrov denied
responsibility and offered other
explanations.
But Secretary of State John
Kerry shot back,
"This is not a joke," and he
condemned what
he called word games.
JOHN KERRY, U.S. Secretary of
State: Now,
this attack has dealt a very
heavy blow to
our efforts to bring peace to
Syria, and it
raises a profound doubt about
whether Russia
and the Assad regime can or will
live up to
the obligations that they agreed
to in Geneva.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Kerry called for
grounding
all aircraft flying over routes
for humanitarian
deliveries.
Meanwhile, another airstrike hit
a mobile
medical unit outside Aleppo
overnight.
Activists reported at least 13
people died.
GWEN IFILL: President Obama and
Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu had
a final meeting
today at the U.N., after years
of testy relations.
This time, the two leaders were
all smiles.
The president said a new $38
billion military
aid package will let Israel cope
with -- quote
-- "enormous uncertainty in the
region."
JUDY WOODRUFF: The cost of the
emergency allergy
shot EpiPen and the company that
makes it
drew bipartisan scorn today from
Congress.
At a House hearing, Heather
Bresch, CEO of
drugmaker Mylan, defended
raising the price
more than 500 percent since
2007.
It now costs $608 for a
two-pack.
She said Mylan will soon
introduce a generic
version at half the cost, but
lawmakers were
unimpressed.
REP.
SCOTT DESJARLAIS (R), Tennessee:
A mother
would cut off her right arm to
get that dose
of drug.
You decided to charge $600,
instead of cutting
off her arm, and now you're
saying you're
dropping it to $300 and that
should make us
all feel better, when, in fact,
that's probably
about 10 times what the drug
should cost.
HEATHER BRESCH, CEO, Mylan:
Congressman, we
want everyone who needs an
EpiPen to have
an EpiPen.
All the programs that we put in
place, from
the generic, to the higher
patient assistant
program, to the co-pay card, so
trying to
address every facet of patient
to make sure
they can have access to EpiPen
is what we
will remain focused on.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Bresch went on to
say the company
makes $50 profit from each
EpiPen.
GWEN IFILL: And outside the
Capitol today,
construction crews started work
on the platform
for January's inauguration of
the 45th president
of the United States.
Republican and Democratic
leaders hammered
in the ceremonial first nails
for the massive
10,000-square-foot structure;
1,600 people
will have to fit on the stage.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Still to come on
the "NewsHour":
we sit down with libertarian
presidential
candidate Gary Johnson; Donald
Trump's foreign
business dealings as potential
conflicts of
interest; police robots being
used to detonate
and defuse bombs; and much more.
interest; police robots being
used to detonate
and defuse bombs; and much more.
We return now to the fatal
police shooting
in Charlotte, North Carolina
late yesterday
and the violent street protests
that followed.
Here with me now is the city's
mayor, Jennifer
Roberts.
Welcome, Mayor Roberts.
Thank you.
We're hearing two different
versions upon
what happened.
Is there any new information to
come forward
late today that lends credence
to either version?
JENNIFER ROBERTS (D), Mayor of
Charlotte,
North Carolina: Well, we have
heard from our
police chief that we do have
video footage
of the incident.
They are still analyzing it.
It's from different angles.
We have heard that a gun was
found on the
scene, that there was no book
scene, and that we are
corroborating different
witness views as well to make
sure that we
have all the facts in hand.
But we are hearing a very
different story
from within the city.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You mean from
within the community,
from the relative, or apparently
the daughter
of the victim, and from an
eyewitness who
said she saw a book fall out of
his lap when
he got out of the car.
JENNIFER ROBERTS: We want to
make sure that
we have a thorough
investigation.
We have a history in Charlotte
of being very
transparent, and we absolutely
want the community
to know that this investigation
will have
the highest integrity.
We want the community to be
patient as we
put together all the facts.
We know there are different
versions of the
story out there.
And we are calling for a
peaceful protest
while we put everything
together, while we
get the evidence clear.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Will the gun that
was found
be publicly released?
Will it be shown to the public?
And will that video that we
understand that's
available be shown?
JENNIFER ROBERTS: Well, I have
asked to see
the video footage as soon as
possible.
The chief, at his discretion,
can show it
to leaders in the community.
We are working with our officers
to help get
that information to some key
people.
And absolutely, evidence, once
the investigation
is completed and that we are
sure we have
all of it, and it is accurate, I
want us to
be as transparent as possible.
We absolutely need to show folks
that this
is an investigation that is
transparent with
the highest integrity.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, does that
mean that all
of this material will ultimately
be made available?
JENNIFER ROBERTS: Well, there
are some legal
issues around that.
Our policy has been that while
the investigation
is still active, that that is
not made public.
But once the investigation is
concluded, whatever
that conclusion is, then it will
be accessible.
In terms of what extent, again,
there are
some legal procedures to go
through.
But my goal is to make it as
clear as possible
as soon as possible.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Do you have any
more information,
Mayor Roberts, about who the
victim was?
We know that the woman who said
she was his
daughter said that he had a
disability.
Do we know any more about that?
JENNIFER ROBERTS: I have not
been able to
confirm any more information
about the victim.
I know that there are many folks
in the community
who are stepping up, our faith
leaders, our
community leaders, who are
calling for peace,
who are calling for patience.
Absolutely want people to
express their views,
express their frustration,
perhaps, with the
slowness of information coming
out.
But we are calling for peace and
hoping that
people will wait until it all
becomes clear
and we can get that information
out.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We reported just
a few moments
ago that there appeared to be
demonstrations
forming this afternoon in
Charlotte.
What is the state of what's
going on in the
community right now?
JENNIFER ROBERTS: We have had
some gatherings.
We had a small gathering of
people in our
uptown area of people very
peacefully, very
quietly holding up signs, Black
Lives Matter.
We have a gathering of the faith
community
and some faith leaders who are
gathering in
a park who have made it very
clear this is
peaceful.
They want to express their
concern with a
story that, again, has played
out all around
the country.
And folks are very skeptical, to
be honest,
of some of the investigations
that have happened.
But we want people to express
that frustration.
We want to work with our
community.
We have a long tradition of our
faith leaders,
of our business and community
leaders coming
together to work through these
things.
And we have had numerous
dialogues.
We have a community relations
committee that
the city has that has a process
where we can
have these constructive
dialogues.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And finally, just
quickly,
we understand President Obama
telephoned you
today.
Is that right?
What did he say?
JENNIFER ROBERTS: Absolutely.
I have spoken to President
Obama, and he certainly
offered any help the federal
government could
provide.
There are folks in the Justice
Department,
others who have worked with
community policing
strategies who know how to work
with communities.
And I was grateful for the call.
Clearly, this is something our
country is
facing, and we absolutely do
need to know
that there are racial
disparities still in
our country.
And it is in our best interests
and in our
community's best interest to
work together,
to continue to be a country that
is more equal
and where everyone is treated
with dignity
and respect.
And we pledge to do that here in
Charlotte.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Mayor Jennifer
Roberts, the
mayor of the city of Charlotte,
thank you
very much.
JENNIFER ROBERTS: Thanks for
having me.
GWEN IFILL: Issues of race and
justice were
also the candidates' focus on
the campaign
trail today.
John Yang reports.
And a warning: It includes
language that may
be offensive.
JOHN YANG: Donald Trump, the
self-proclaimed
law and order candidate, raised
questions
today about the actions of a
white police
officer whose shooting of an
unarmed black
man last week is being
investigated by the
Justice Department.
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
I watched the shooting, in
particular, in
Tulsa, and that man was hands
up.
That man went to the car, hands
up, put his
hand on the car.
I mean, to me, it looked like he
did everything
you're supposed to do.
And this young officer, I don't
know what
she was thinking.
I don't know what she was
thinking.
But I'm very, very troubled by
that.
JOHN YANG: Trump was speaking
during a conference
of pastors at a black church in
a Cleveland
suburb.
He was introduced by boxing
promoter Don King.
King recalled counseling Michael
Jackson about
the realities of how blacks are
viewed in
America, and appeared to
accidentally use
the N-word.
DON KING, Founder, Don King
Productions: if
you are rich, you are a rich
Negro.
If you are intelligent,
intellectual, you're
an intellectual Negro.
If you are a dancing and sliding
and gliding
nigger -- I mean Negro.
(LAUGHTER)
DON KING: You are a dancing and
sliding and
gliding Negro.
So dare not alienate because you
cannot assimilate.
JOHN YANG: In a town hall airing
tonight on
FOX News, Trump said he wants to
see more
use of stop and frisk, a
practice a federal
judge has called
unconstitutional.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
Hello, Orlando!
JOHN YANG: In Orlando, Hillary
Clinton also
weighed in on race and policing.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: We have
two more names
to add to a list of
African-Americans killed
by police officers in these
encounters.
It's unbearable.
And it needs to become
intolerable.
We need to come together, work
together, white,
black, Latino, Asian, all of us,
to turn the
tide, stop the violence, build
the trust.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
JOHN YANG: As the campaign heads
into the
homestretch, Clinton has a big
financial advantage
over Trump.
In August, she raised $60
million, her biggest
one-month haul yet.
Trump raised just over $40
million.
Much of Clinton's money has been
going into
TV ads.
Since mid-August, according to
one analysis,
Clinton has outspent Trump on TV
by more than
2-1.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm John
Yang.
GWEN IFILL: Only five days until
the first
presidential debate, but
Libertarian nominee
Gary Johnson won't be on that
stage, after
saying it was his only path to
victory.
That's where Governor Johnson
and I began
our conversation earlier today.
GARY JOHNSON, Libertarian
Presidential Candidate:
Interestingly, something that I
didn't know
is that I am polling higher than
Ross Perot
was polling before he was
admitted into those
debates.
GWEN IFILL: The rules were
different.
GARY JOHNSON: The rules were
And, of course, the rules were
really adopted
to make sure that a third party
would never
be on the stage again.
GWEN IFILL: So, what do you do?
GARY JOHNSON: Well, you just
keep plugging
away.
I mean, I'm representing, I
think, the majority
of voters in this country.
The majority of voters in this
country don't
know that, but, you know, that's
my task,
and, speaking broadly, fiscally
conservative,
socially inclusive, skeptical
when it comes
to our military interventions,
regime change,
and free market, devoid of crony
capitalism,
devoid of pay-to-play.
GWEN IFILL: But you have just
described for
me a rock and a hard place,
classic.
If you don't get known, you
can't get on the
debate stage.
(CROSSTALK)
GARY JOHNSON: It's a catch-22,
yes.
No, it's totally a catch-22.
GWEN IFILL: So, there is, as we
have seen
in lots of polls, evidence that
there are
a lot of voters out there who
don't much like
Donald Trump, don't much like
Hillary Clinton,
who are curious about you.
How do you get them to find out?
GARY JOHNSON: Well, I have never
had an issue
with 15 percent.
GWEN IFILL: Which is the barrier
to get on
the debate stage.
GARY JOHNSON: Yes.
But here it is, is that my name
has never
appeared in one national poll as
the first
question, Johnson, Trump, or
Clinton, not
one.
GWEN IFILL: Why should it?
GARY JOHNSON: Well, that I'm on
the ballot
in all 50 states.
And I'm the only third party on
the the ballot
in all 50 states.
I have maintained, tongue in
cheek, that if
Mickey Mouse were the third name
on that top
line, Mickey would be at 30
percent.
Mickey is a known commodity.
But Mickey is not on the ballot
in all 50
states either.
GWEN IFILL: How do you
capitalize on the unpopularity
of the other candidates, and
maybe make the
support that you have, which
might be soft,
if it doesn't look like you're
going to be
on the debate stage?
How do you harden that up?
GARY JOHNSON: Well, actually, I
think the
support is really hard.
Last night, there was a poll
released that
I'm number one among
independents right now.
And that's something I would
want to point
out also, is, is that the
largest group of
the voting population is
independents at about
45 percent now of the
population.
Where's their representation?
Well, as of last night, I'm
leading in that
group, which I think speaks
volumes.
GWEN IFILL: I'm going to now
give you an opportunity
to get past polls and talk about
governing
and leadership.
GARY JOHNSON: Yes.
Yes.
GWEN IFILL: So, this week, we
have seen a
series of attacks in New York
and New Jersey,
attempted attacks in Minnesota.
It never seems to go away.
You have advocated eliminating
the Department
of Homeland Security.
Is that something you would
still do, giving
what we are facing?
GARY JOHNSON: Yes.
No, I just think that it's an
added layer
of bureaucracy that really
hasn't accomplished
anything.
But talking about governing,
this was what
I really enjoyed being -- what I
really enjoyed
being governor of New Mexico, is
really being
at the center, in this case, if
I were president
of the United States.
Clearly, what we're doing is
working up to
a certain point, but, clearly,
right now,
there's a breakdown.
And I'm talking about the
shooter in Orlando,
the fact that they did know
about this guy
in New York.
At least, you know, he was on
the radar screen.
Is it an issue of more
resources?
I have found that those in law
enforcement,
you know, they really do know
their jobs.
GWEN IFILL: But you would break
apart the
Department of Homeland Security.
That wouldn't make our ability
to fight these
people or track those people
weaker?
GARY JOHNSON: No.
Keep in mind, these are 22
agencies that were
brought together under the
Department of Homeland
Security.
In my opinion, they left their
homes that
they had existed in for a long
time, and that
right now we just have an added
layer of bureaucracy
that really isn't accomplishing
anything.
I don't know what armed homeland
security
officers, uniformed officers
armed walking
the streets are doing in this
country.
I have no idea what they're
doing.
GWEN IFILL: How about the
unarmed people who
actually track these terrorists?
GARY JOHNSON: The unarmed
people.
GWEN IFILL: The unarmed people,
the regular...
GARY JOHNSON: Well, these are
agencies that,
like I say, were doing this
prior.
So, nothing new was created with
the Department
of Homeland Security.
I just think that this should be
a function
of the FBI.
I mean, this should be the FBI.
GWEN IFILL: Let's talk a little
bit about
leadership again, as we have
seen this week
in Charlotte and Tulsa and
around the country
unrest, racial unrest.
How would you lead on that
issue?
GARY JOHNSON: Well, in this
case, black lives
do matter, blacks getting shot
at six times
the rate of whites.
I have been more outspoken than
any politician
in the country on the war on
drugs, recognizing
that, if you are of color and
you are arrested
on a drug-related crime, there's
a four times
more likelihood that you will go
to prison
than have not.
We have the highest...
GWEN IFILL: I want to ask you to
focus on
police -- what is alleged to be
police misconduct,
though.
What does that have to do with
the war on
drugs?
GARY JOHNSON: I think it has its
roots in
the war on drugs.
I think the roots of
discrimination does exist
in the war on drugs, when it
comes to police
recognizing that this is
happening, that,
when I'm pulled over, I'm not --
I'm not pulled
out of the car.
I am not provoked to point that
I get angry,
and I have cuffs put on me
because I'm white.
GWEN IFILL: What does a
president do?
GARY JOHNSON: That the
president, number one,
recognizes it, and is able to
engage in the
dialogue.
Secondly, the president controls
the Department
of Justice.
What are the threads that exist
in communities
where there is the least amount
of discrimination?
What are the threads that exist
in communities
where there's thee least amount
of police
violence, conversely, the worst?
The president of the United
States being to
articulate this, being able to
bring about
change.
High-profile shootings in
Albuquerque, my
state, my Albuquerque, my --
where I grew
up, Department of Justice came
in, made recommendations.
They were good recommendations.
They're being followed.
Look, that's a role that the
federal government
can and should play in all of
this.
GWEN IFILL: Gary Johnson,
Libertarian candidate
for president, thank you very
much.
GARY JOHNSON: Gwen, thank you
very much.
GWEN IFILL: Why do third-party
candidates
do better in certain election
cycles?
We take a look at history to
explain America's
on-again/off-again love affair.
Find it on our Web site,
PBS.org/NewsHour.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Turning to the
Republican Party
nominee, Donald Trump, he
highlights his business
record as an important reason to
vote for
him.
But a number of his dealings
reach beyond
the borders of the United
States, and questions
have been raised about whether
any would present
conflicts of interest if he
becomes president.
I'm joined now by "Newsweek"'s
Kurt Eichenwald,
whose recent cover story details
Trump's extensive
global business connections.
Kurt Eichenwald, welcome.
First of all, tell us, how
exactly did you
gain access to information about
Donald Trump's
business holdings, because we
know he hasn't
released his tax returns?
KURT EICHENWALD, "Newsweek":
It's not easy.
I mean, a lot of it came down to
calling businesspeople,
financiers all over the world,
tracking down
people who had done business
with Donald Trump,
finding the names of entities
disclosed in
his financial disclosure, but
that have no
description of what they are,
and, from that,
figuring out who the partners
were, what their
entities were, who the people
who were in
charge, and then linking
everybody together.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, you write
that never before
has an American candidate for
president had
so many financial ties with
America's allies
and enemies.
How extensive is it?
KURT EICHENWALD: It's huge.
I mean, it basically traces into
virtually
every major non-European area of
the world.
And when you have someone who
has conflicts
of interest in India and
Azerbaijan, in Russia,
in China, in Turkey, in -- you
know, the list
just keeps going on and on and
on -- in the
Philippines.
I mean, there was a point where
I just had
to stop, because I couldn't keep
-- you know,
I only had 5,000 words to tell
this story,
and the number of conflicts
would go on -- fill
an a entire issue of "Newsweek."
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, what's an
example of
a conflict?
Because, among other things, you
say Donald
Trump is not a builder.
You call him a licenser.
What does that mean?
KURT EICHENWALD: Well, for the
last decade
or so, Donald Trump hasn't been
building anything.
He's been on "The Apprentice"
and he's been
selling his name, sort of like
Hilton Hotels
sells its name.
And so he's been basically
selling his name
out to people who will pay him,
without, apparently,
a lot of due diligence into who
these people
are.
I mean, a great example is, he
has a deal
right now with a fellow in
Azerbaijan whose
father is a major government
official who
has been identified by American
intelligence
as money laundering for the
Iranian military.
So, you have now Donald Trump,
if he's president
of the United States, he's got
conflicts in
Azerbaijan, and he is somebody
who his business
partner's father is linked to
some pretty
bad things.
What does he do?
What's his interest?
How does he approach it?
JUDY WOODRUFF: You also write
about a businessman
in Turkey who is very close to
Turkey's president,
Erdogan.
KURT EICHENWALD: Yes, and that
created a serious
problem, because that developer
was able to
bring Erdogan out for a
dedication of the
Trump building.
Trump was there.
And then Donald Trump got up and
insulted
Muslims around the world.
There was basically protests in
Turkey.
The Turkish president, who was
already on
the verge of facing a coup, was
getting pressured.
He came out, condemned Donald
Trump.
He condemned the person who was
doing business
with him.
That individual has been
indicted.
And what I have been told is
that the Turkish
president is saying that, if
Donald Trump
is president, the United States,
because of
this whole episode, the United
States will
not be allowed to have access to
a Turkish
air base that's a major staging
area for the
bombings of ISIS.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now, the Trump
campaign says
-- and you make note of this in
your updated
story -- they say, if he becomes
president,
he's going to cut all ties with
the Trump
Organization.
Why doesn't that alleviate any
concern about
a conflict of interest?
KURT EICHENWALD: Trump's too
smart a businessman
not to know that he's lying on
this one.
You know, you start off, he's
had three explanations.
One is that he's going to put
the company
in a blind trust.
A blind trust is something where
you take
a portfolio of investments, give
it to an
independent person, who then
handles your
trading and your transactions,
and you never
know what's in it.
Well, Trump is saying: I will
put this one
company in a blind trust.
He knows what's in it.
It's that one company.
There's nobody independent
managing it.
It's his children.
When he says he will sever all
ties to it,
you can't have a company where
you're getting
financial benefits, your
children are getting
financial benefits, and your
children are
running the company and say, I
have severed
my ties on it.
Third, Trump is going into this
-- he's not
going to suddenly lose all his
memory.
Trump knows who his business
partners are.
The rest of the world doesn't,
but Trump knows
who all his business partners
are.
And he knows what the conflicts
And when -- if he gets into
office, he will
be sitting there fully aware of
every conflict
that exists and what decision
will lead to
profits for his family, even to
the detriment
of the United States' national
security.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, assuming
all this still
exists, if he's elected, what
would he have
to do then to eliminate a
conflict of interest?
KURT EICHENWALD: The only option
is, you have
to sell the Trump Organization.
If he sells -- if he is truly
dedicated to
what he's saying, he can sell
the Trump Organization.
His family can take the money
and start a
new real estate empire, should
they choose,
and all the conflicts are gone.
But they have made it very clear
that they
are not going to do that.
In fact, Trump's daughter, who
is now going
to be a major official there,
has said, you
know, we will decide not to make
deals that
might present national security
or foreign
policy problems, which, of
course, raises
the question, how are they going
to know?
Is Donald Trump going to share
classified
information with his family?
Is he going to share foreign
policy plans?
And, even worse, are they saying
they could
have figured out that their
business partner
in Azerbaijan was connected
through family
to money laundering for Iran?
Of course they couldn't.
They're not going to know where
they're having
problems and where they aren't.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, it is a
significant piece
of reporting.
Kurt Eichenwald from "Newsweek,"
we thank
you.
KURT EICHENWALD: Thanks for
having me.
GWEN IFILL: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour": how
to parse
truth from lies in the digital
age; and an
inside look at the brand-new
National Museum
of African American History and
Culture.
Miles O'Brien
But first: In the aftermath of
this week's
bombings in New York and New
Jersey, science
correspondent Miles O'Brien
looks at the ways
police departments are coming to
rely on bomb-disarming
robots.
It's part of our weekly Leading
Edge series.
MAN: Everybody, get off the
street!
MILES O'BRIEN: As the pipe and
pressure cooker
bomb plot unfolded and unraveled
in New York
and New Jersey, police deployed
some remotely
operated tools aimed at saving
the lives of
civilians and bomb squad
technicians alike.
In New Jersey, a reminder of the
hair-trigger
risk they face in harm's way.
At NYPD bomb squad headquarters
on City Island
a few years ago, Lieutenant Mark
Torre gave
me a demo using the same robot,
the Remotec
ANDROS F6A, built by Northrop
Grumman.
LT.
MARK TORRE, New York Police
Department: Its
primary mission is to put
distance between
our technicians and something of
a hazardous
nature, because distance in this
business
is always your friend.
MILES O'BRIEN: In this scenario,
it is believed
there may be an explosive in
this car.
And it is much more than a
hypothetical.
It's what happened in Times
Square on May
1 of 2010.
A street vendor discovered a
smoldering, abandoned
car filled with propane tanks,
fertilizer,
gasoline and firecrackers.
It was a Saturday evening, the
busiest time
of the week, in one of the
busiest, and most
iconic, intersections in the
world.
MITCH SILBER, Former NYPD
Director of Intelligence
Analysis: Between the scenery,
the symbolism,
the congestion and it being be
just media
central for New York City, you
can't get much
better of a background for
terrorists.
MILES O'BRIEN: Mitch Silber was
NYPD's director
of intelligence analysis at the
time.
He shudders to think what would
have happened
if the car bomb, built by
Pakistani American
Faisal Shahzad, had not been a
dud.
MITCH SILBER: It would ripped
the car in half,
and this is a very busy
intersection.
Depending on the congestion of
people right
around the car, it would
certainly kill people,
injured and maimed many others.
And it would have been the first
big terrorist
attack in New York City since
9/11, since
2001, nine years earlier.
MILES O'BRIEN: So, if he had
just been a better
bomb-maker, it would have been a
horrible
event?
MITCH SILBER: Absolutely.
MILES O'BRIEN: In fact, a few
months later,
the FBI built an identical car
bomb and detonated
it to see what could have
happened, a scary
thought.
Instead, in Times Square, the
NYPD bomb squad
deployed its ANDROS robot and
did pretty much
what you are about to see.
DET.
JAMES SCHUTTA, New York Police
Department:
Bomb squad is called.
A perimeter is set up, and we
are now going
to use this robot to approach
this vehicle
and take a look at what's
inside.
MILES O'BRIEN: Detective James
Schutta operated
the robot from a safe distance.
DET.
JAMES SCHUTTA: We are not in
sight of the
vehicle.
The key to successful robot
operation is that
he can do the entire job without
ever seeing
what the robot is actually
doing.
It's all done remotely via the
cameras.
MILES O'BRIEN: But this robot is
more than
just a remote-controlled eye.
It is able to get inside the car
to take a
closer look.
The robot fired a .12-gauge
blast through
both windows.
DET.
JAMES SCHUTTA: And that's what
we call a perfect
shot.
It is sort of just a game of
manipulation
now, where he's going to
maneuver the robot
until we get a better view of
what's inside.
He took out both windows.
Now we have an opportunity to
look in both
sides.
MILES O'BRIEN: In this scenario,
the robot
discovered there is indeed a
bomb inside the
car.
DET.
JAMES SCHUTTA: We always try to
put ourselves
in the mind of the bomber.
We want to stay one step ahead
of them.
The bomb itself really has sort
of remained
the same throughout the years.
It's what sets them off that
sets them apart.
The more sophisticated
triggering systems,
they're difficult to defeat, and
that's a
concern to us, but, again, we
always try to
stay one step ahead.
MILES O'BRIEN: Remotec robots
are also used
by the military to defuse bombs,
but also
to kill insurgents hiding in
alleys.
In Dallas in July, that same
tactic was used
by police.
A robot blew up a cornered
sniper who had
taken aim at white police
officers, killing
five of them.
It was unprecedented in U.S. law
enforcement
history.
But Dallas Police Chief David
Brown said he
had no regrets.
DAVID BROWN, Dallas Police
Chief: I would
do it again.
I would do it again to save our
officers'
lives.
MILES O'BRIEN: But experts who
track the evolution
of technology used by the
military and law
enforcement worry an important
threshold has
been crossed, without a national
debate on
the ethical issues.
PETER W. SINGER, Robotics
Expert: The question
is, is it going to be viewed as
an anomaly,
or is it a precedent that will
be followed
more widely?
MILES O'BRIEN: Peter W. Singer
is an expert
on unmanned and robotic weapons
systems.
He says it is inevitable local
police will
increase their use of robots.
PETER W. SINGER: The question is
not, are
police going to be using robotic
systems?
It's, how?
In what manner?
How will they be trained to use
them?
How will they be regulated?
Will they be armed or not?
If they're armed, will they be
lethally armed
or with non-lethal weapons?
The issue has to involve not
just the police,
but also the populace, the
people that are
to be protected and served by
the police and
the tools, including the robotic
ones, that
they use.
MILES O'BRIEN: The devices used
in New York,
New Jersey and Dallas all still
have human
beings in the loop driving the
robot, making
the decisions.
But as robots become more
autonomous, defining
some clear rules of engagement
will become
a more urgent concern for law
enforcement
and the public.
Miles O'Brien, the "PBS
NewsHour," New York.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We all realize we
are inundated
by electronic data, whether we
are at work,
school, home or play, but how to
make sense
of it all?
That is the focus of the latest
addition to
the "NewsHour" Bookshelf.
Jeffrey Brown leads the way.
JEFFREY BROWN: "It ain't what
you don't know
that gets you into trouble.
It's what you know for sure that
just ain't
so."
Mark Twain said that.
And imagine what he would make
of the Internet,
when everything is available and
we're sure
we know so much.
But do we?
The Twain quote appears at the
beginning of
a new book titled "A Field Guide
to Lies:
Critical Thinking in the
Information Age."
Our guide is Daniel Levitin, a
neuroscientist
and bestselling author of books,
including
"This Is Your Brain on Music"
and "The Organized
Mind."
And, Dan, welcome to you.
Your starting point, we're
bombarded with
information, but it's harder
than ever to
know what's true.
DANIEL LEVITIN, Author, "A Field
Guide to
Lies: Critical Thinking in the
Information
Age": We're making more and more
decisions
every day.
I think a lot of us feel
overloaded by the
process.
And, as you say, it's getting
harder and harder
to know, when you find things on
the Internet,
what you can believe and what
you can't.
And there isn't really anybody
doing it for
us.
JEFFREY BROWN: And you see this
everywhere.
You go through both data,
numbers, and -- and,
well, everything, right?
DANIEL LEVITIN: Yes.
I mean, it's in Facebook and in
statistics
and in things that politicians
say.
And it's in headlines.
It's in representations that a
salesman might
make to you.
It's everywhere.
JEFFREY BROWN: It's clearly
annoying you,
right, as a scientist.
You don't -- you just don't like
this world.
(LAUGHTER)
DANIEL LEVITIN: Well, I like a
world where
each of us has the tools to be
able to make
able to make our own decisions.
I don't think I'm always right,
but I would
like to empower people to come
to sound conclusions
using a systematic way of
looking at things.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, so a
very simple
-- you give a bunch of examples
in your book.
A very simple one is the pie
chart, right,
of polling that we're hit with a
lot of the
time.
DANIEL LEVITIN: Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: This is from --
this happens
to be FOX News, but it could --
in 2012 -- and
it could be probably from any
time and any
network.
DANIEL LEVITIN: Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: So, look at this.
Tell us what we're seeing here.
DANIEL LEVITIN: Well, the first
rule of pie
charts, Jeff, is that you're
taking a pie,
you're dividing it up into
pieces.
The pieces have to add up to 100
percent.
JEFFREY BROWN: Right.
That's the idea.
DANIEL LEVITIN: And, as you see
here, they
don't.
Now, you can imagine how this
happens.
The kind of people who become
graphic artists
may not be mathematically
inclined.
They're artists, artistically
And so you end up with things
like this.
JEFFREY BROWN: But the missing
information
-- you could also look at that
and say -- I'm
trying to imagine what -- maybe
people were
asked -- they were told they
could they could
favor several candidates, right?
DANIEL LEVITIN: Well, that's
right.
JEFFREY BROWN: But, somehow,
that's not shown
in what we're looking at.
DANIEL LEVITIN: Right.
Who would you support for the
upcoming election?
And you're allowed to name more
than one.
And so you get something like
this that adds
up to 100.
But, in that case, you shouldn't
use a pie
chart.
It's really visually deceptive,
which might
lead you to conclude the wrong
thing.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right,
another example
you give, sometimes one truth
hiding another,
a less favorable truth.
And this is showing Apple,
right, and Tim
Cook, the CEO, talking about
sales that actually
went down, right?
DANIEL LEVITIN: Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: But he didn't
want us to know
that.
Right?
DANIEL LEVITIN: This is one of
my favorite.
So, what do you do when you have
got something,
a case like this, where the
sales have gone
down, and a graph would clearly
show it?
Well, you create a cumulative
sales graph,
where, as long as you sold only
one unit,
the graph is going to appear to
go up.
But if your sales for the
quarter are down,
you can hide it this way.
And that's what he did.
JEFFREY BROWN: Now, the biggest
source of
information, of course, for all
of -- in our
own lives now is the Internet,
right?
And you write about a -- I think
you call
it an anti-skepticism bias.
We believe so much of what comes
to us on
the Internet.
Now, I wonder why.
You're a neuroscientist.
I mean, what's going on to make
us not skeptical
enough?
DANIEL LEVITIN: You know, I
don't really know.
(LAUGHTER)
DANIEL LEVITIN: I mean, part of
it is that,
when we have learned something,
there's this
thing called belief
perseverance.
Having learned something, we
tend to cling
to that belief, even in the face
of overwhelming
evidence to the contrary.
New information comes in all
time, and the
thing we ought to be thinking
about doing
is changing our beliefs as that
new information
comes in.
JEFFREY BROWN: That's what
critical thinking
means.
DANIEL LEVITIN: I think so.
We need to take a step back, and
realize that
not everything we encounter is
true.
You don't want to be gullibly
accepting everything
as true, but you don't want to
be cynically
rejecting everything as false.
You want to take your time to
evaluate the
information.
JEFFREY BROWN: In the end of the
day, don't
people -- don't we have to trust
institutions
or trust somebody?
DANIEL LEVITIN: Well, we do.
Of course, science is based on
this.
I have never seen a proton or
electron spinning
around it.
I have never actually seen a
chromosome.
I trust that they exist because
people who
I trust tell me they do.
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes.
DANIEL LEVITIN: It does come
down to that.
But we can be skeptical,
suitably skeptical,
and we can trust news outlets,
some more than
others.
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes.
DANIEL LEVITIN: We -- I mean,
society functions
because we trust one another.
I trust that my plumber knows
what he's doing,
right?
I think, though, that we need to
be armed
with the critical thinking
skills that lawyers
and scientists and journalists
such as yourself
have.
We all need to have those as we
make our way
through the day.
And they're not that hard to
acquire.
I think they can be acquired in
a couple hours.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, before
I let you
go, we have to go back to that
Mark Twain
quote.
I want to put that back up,
because I read
it.
I started it -- our segment.
You start your book with it.
And then you tell us in the end
of your book
-- and I'm going to tell our
audience -- that
wasn't said by Mark Twain.
DANIEL LEVITIN: Right.
The quote ain't so.
And it's a wonderful example of
how we believe
things that aren't so.
And, in fact, I agree with the
sentiment that
it's probably more dangerous to
believe some
things that aren't so than to
not believe
something -- you know, to
believe in a lie.
And, in the fact-checking for
the book, I
went to find -- as you do, I
went to find
the original source.
But it was nowhere to be found
in any of Twain's
writings.
JEFFREY BROWN: So, Mark Twain
didn't say it.
Daniel Levitin lied.
The "NewsHour" lied.
But we have now set the record
straight.
DANIEL LEVITIN: Which is how
things move forward.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right.
The book is "A Field Guide to
Lies."
Daniel Levitin, thanks very
much..
DANIEL LEVITIN: Thanks for
having me.
GWEN IFILL: Finally tonight, the
jewel in
the Smithsonian Museum crown
opens this weekend
on the National Mall.
President Obama will be on hand
to dedicate
the National Museum of African
American History
and Culture.
We take you on a tour and show
how it all
came to be.
JOYCE BAILEY, Museum Donor: We
can see she
has her camera right there.
That was one of her photographic
days.
Joyce Bailey's legacy turned out
to be worth
more than money.
Her mother, Lois Alexander Lane
left her a
treasure trove from the museum
she created,
the Harlem Institute of Fashion,
costumes,
dresses sewn and worn by slaves,
celebrities
and by civil rights icons.
One of the things I think people
are surprised
to know, or to remember, is that
Rosa Parks
was a seamstress.
JOYCE BAILEY: Yes, she was.
She was actually carrying the
dress that the
museum now has on the day that
she was arrested.
It's a beautiful yellow with
brown stripes
in it.
It's beyond belief.
You really just have to see it.
GWEN IFILL: Beginning this
weekend, thousands
of people will stream into the
brand-new National
Museum of African American
History and Culture
to see elements of Bailey's
collection and
countless other priceless items.
There is this, an airplane flown
cross-country
to the museum once piloted by
the all-black
Tuskegee Airmen, the casket of
14-year-old
Emmett Till, lynched in 1955 for
whistling
at a white woman, the writings
of abolitionist
Frederick Douglass, shackles
discovered on
a sunken ship that brought
hundreds of slaves
to America, and from a South
Carolina plantation,
a fully restored slave cabin,
the dress Marian
Anderson wore when she sang at
the Lincoln
Memorial, and costumes from "The
Wiz," the
all-black Broadway musical based
on "The Wizard
of Oz," donated from Joyce
Bailey's collection.
This is as an amazing place,
chockful of the
expected and the expected.
One thing missing, major
artifacts from the
Reverend Martin Luther King Jr.
His family apparently decided to
hold onto
some of the most famous
memorabilia, including
the Bible that President Obama
used to take
the oath of office in 2013.
In any case, it fell to museum
director Lonnie
Bunch and his band of curators
to sort through
what turned into a rush of
donations.
LONNIE BUNCH, Director, National
Museum of
African American History and
Culture: But,
when I saw them, I said, we are
going to tell
that story.
And I just love, from "The Wiz,"
I just love
how they look.
I just think they're so
distinctive.
They obviously speak volumes
about Geoffrey
Holder.
GWEN IFILL: The designer.
LONNIE BUNCH: The designer.
And, plus, they're just so
beautiful.
GWEN IFILL: It was a big moment
at the time.
LONNIE BUNCH: Absolutely.
GWEN IFILL: From sobering
memorabilia like
rebellion leader Nat Turner's
Bible, to 20th
century musical memories, Chuck
Berry's cherry
red Cadillac, and Parliament
Funkadelic's
iconic Mothership, here lit up
and sheathed
in plastic in preparation for
the opening.
LONNIE BUNCH: During concerts,
it would come
down, and George Clinton would
get out.
So it'd be this notion that he
was from another
planet.
(LAUGHTER)
GWEN IFILL: Which he kind of
was.
LONNIE BUNCH: Which he still is.
GWEN IFILL: The $540 million
project, a century
in the making, and the first
green museum
on the National Mall, captures
the sweep of
African-American history.
So, what do we have here?
LONNIE BUNCH: This is one of my
great treasures.
What I love is what my staff is
able to find.
And this is a playbill from
Newcastle, England,
in 1857 that is from Ira
Aldridge's career.
Ira Aldridge, the great black
thespian that
couldn't get jobs in the United
States as
a great actor, classical actor,
had to go
to Europe.
GWEN IFILL: Othello, who
everyone now thinks
of as a character always played
by a black
actor.
LONNIE BUNCH: Exactly.
But it was always in blackface.
GWEN IFILL: Galleries are
devoted to breakthroughs
in sports and performance.
LONNIE BUNCH: The joy of Prince,
and I love
the Michael Jackson fedora.
I just capture that.
And, obviously, the "Soul Train"
costume.
GWEN IFILL: "Soul Train" costume
is a little
alarming.
(LAUGHTER)
LONNIE BUNCH: Well, it is,
because we thought
that was cool.
GWEN IFILL: We.
I don't know about we.
(LAUGHTER)
GWEN IFILL: Speak for yourself.
GWEN IFILL: This is cool.
Bunch, a former president of the
Chicago Historical
Society, shepherded the project
to completion,
wooing Congress for half the
money, and soliciting
private donations from
millionaires like Oprah
Winfrey and philanthropist David
Rubenstein.
But he also appealed to
individuals, families,
churches, fraternities and
sororities, who
handed over gems like James
Baldwin's inkwell
and Malcolm X's tape recorder.
Advance tickets flew out the
door, 5,000 of
them in 18 minutes one day.
On this journey you have been to
get to this
point with this museum, what has
been the
biggest surprise for you along
the way?
LONNIE BUNCH: I think I have
been stunned
by the excitement and the way
people really
care.
There are times I will walk in
an airport
and people will just sort of
give me the thumbs
up, or I will walk down the
street and church
ladies will come to me and say
they're praying
for me.
So, I think the fact that this
means so much
to so many people has been the
biggest surprise
for me.
GWEN IFILL: As with other
Smithsonian museums,
one building cannot begin to
hold its collection.
Conservator Antje Neumann has
helped preserve
the collection at the museum's
facility in
a Washington suburb.
ANTJE NEUMANN, Conservator,
National Museum
of African American History and
Culture: There's
always the balance between
preservation and
exhibition, and allowing the
public to see
the national treasures, and then
also balancing
that with preserving it for
future generations.
It's lovely to have a place to
highlight the
struggles, the causes and the
progression
that many people and the
contributions many
people have done in this
country.
GWEN IFILL: It falls to Neumann
to repair
Shaquille O'Neal's size 20 shoe,
to prepare
a stool from Muhammad Ali's gym,
to restore
worn pages of the first book of
black poetry,
and to spiff up funk singer
Bootsy Collins'
bright yellow leather costume.
ANTJE NEUMANN: It just needs a
bit -- a little
bit of cleaning in order to make
it ready
for presentation, as it has been
used a lot
on stage.
GWEN IFILL: Collins' outfit
occupies a place
of honor inside the new
building, which is
a work of art itself.
The corona, the signature
exterior feature,
is made of 230 tons of
bronze-colored aluminum
panels, 3,600 in all.
Lead architect Phil Freelon
oversaw the building's
striking design.
PHIL FREELON, Lead Architect:
Many of the
buildings on the Mall are
marble, granite,
concrete, lighter in color.
This building has a variation in
how it appears.
So, on certain days, in certain
lighting conditions,
it can be very vibrant and
bright.
And other times of the day or in
the evening,
it is darker.
So there is this interesting
dynamic of changing
appearance of the building.
GWEN IFILL: Within view, the
Washington Monument
and even a glimpse of the White
House, which
Michelle Obama famously noted
was itself built
by slaves.
Bunch says this makes race an
integral part
of the American experience.
But, in this country, we are so
nervous about
talking about race, about
engaging.
We keep having national
conversations about
race, and it seems that this
building itself
is a big conversation.
Do you -- did you encounter
along the way
any resistance to the notion
that we talk
about Americans only by race?
LONNIE BUNCH: I think there was
fear that
we would be a place that might
be divisive,
that people wouldn't want to
talk about race,
and that we would force them to
talk about
race.
I think there was a great
concern that, would
this just be a museum by black
people for
black people?
And I think we had to counter
that, both by
the kind of stories we told, by
the way we
tried to say, this is a story of
America through
an African-American lens.
GWEN IFILL: Joyce Bailey's
mother could not
have foreseen this day, but she
did see the
value of preserving black
history.
Lois Alexander passed away in
2007, leaving
her daughter with a window into
history.
But didn't you feel a little
emotional about
letting it go?
JOYCE BAILEY: I was very happy
about letting
it go, because I knew my
mother's legacy would
continue.
GWEN IFILL: Curators think about
legacy too.
Lonnie Bunch is still looking
ahead.
LONNIE BUNCH: I want to make
sure that curators
50 years from now can tell the
story of today,
if that's what they want to
tell.
So, I hope this museum will
continue to evolve,
continue to change, because it
really has
to be a place that is the great
convener,
that can bring anybody and
everybody into
a conversation around race.
GWEN IFILL: From groundbreaking
in 2012 to
open doors this week, America
preserved, America
celebrated, right in the
nation's front yard.
Online, you can watch our full
extended interview
with museum director Lonnie
Bunch.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Wow.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
GWEN IFILL: And I'm Gwen Ifill.
Join us online and again here
tomorrow evening.
For all of us here at the "PBS
NewsHour,"
thank you, and good night.
For all of us here at the "PBS
NewsHour,"
thank you, and good night.